---
layout: post
title: Just Try It
tags: programming
---

I love answering programming questions. It lets me feel like a grizzled
veteran sharing my arcane knowledge with those eager to learn. (Yes, I'm
delusional.) If I don't know the answer, I enjoy finding out.

Most people don't know all the arcane language rules of every language they
use. As I get older, I'm less inclined to memorize a language spec or an
API. For example, yesterday I wondered if the Java 5 enhanced for loop calls
the collection expression once or every time through the loop. I searched
for the answer online, and couldn't find one. After a few minutes, I
realized that it would be faster to write a small program to determine the
answer. Within two minutes, I knew. (I'm saving the answer and the code for
another blog post.)

If you have a question about a language rule or the use of a library, there
is more than one way to find the answer: read the documentation, ask
somebody else, or try it. If at all possible, Just Try It(tm)---write a
small program that answers your question. Even better, if your language has
a REPL (Read-Eval-Print Loop) or even accepts input from standard input,
then type a few lines of code interactively.

Ruby comes with `irb`, the Interactive Ruby Browser. Every Lisp has a REPL.
Smalltalk has the Workspace. Shell languages have the shell.

When you Just Try It, you gain the immediate satisfaction of knowing the
answer. You also use a different part of your brain then when you read the
answer online; I claim you absorb the answer more thoroughly if you write a
small code snippet. You might want to keep a collection of these code
snippets for yourself. I have a personal Wiki (an Emacs Wiki, of course)
where I store these sorts of things if they're useful enough. There are also
a few snippet collection Web sites out there, such as
[Code Snippets](http://www.bigbold.com/snippets/).
