---
layout: post
title: 10gen Officially Includes Ruby and Rails
tags: 10gen, mongo, rails, ruby, programming, cloud
---

For the last four months I've been sequestered deep in the heart of the
[10gen](http://www.10gen.com/) labs among the test tubes full of bubbling
primary-colored liquids, glass jars filled with mysterious biological
samples, and mysteriously glowing rectangular pixilated displays. The whole
time, I've been pressing small plastic keys in arcane sequences and
muttering to myself.

Finally---after going through three lab coats, two lab assistants, and more
brains than I care to remember---the lab doors are creaking open to reveal
the secrets within: Ruby and Rails are now
[officially](http://www.10gen.com/blog/2008/12/ruby-support-on-10gen) part
of the 10gen cloud computing platform.

It's alive! ... _ahem_... It's alive! ... _AHEM_ ... **IT'S ALIIIIVVVVEEEE!**

...

Damn. There's never a good dramatic thunderclap around when you need one.

Actually, this announcement isn't worth all the theatrics. Initial Ruby and
Rails support has been in the SDK for a while now. This is more of a soft
launch. Ruby support should be complete. Rails support does not yet include
ActiveRecord. We do have an XGen::Mongo::Base class which is Mongo-specific
with an awfully ActiveRecord-like API.

This launch is more of an official milestone where we are asking the
community to take a look at what we've done and give us feedback. Please go
grab the [10gen SDK](http://www.10gen.com/wiki/SDK) and give it a try. Let
me know if you have any questions or suggestions, either here or preferably
on the [10gen mailing list](http://groups.google.com/group/10gen). If you
are in the NYC area, come to one of our
[hackathons](http://www.10gen.com/wiki/Contact.events).

See the [Ruby Language Center](http://www.10gen.com/wiki/dev.Ruby) page for
links to documentation.
