---
layout: post
title: A Weak Man Begs Forgiveness
tags: humor
---

_This attempt at humor was written while recovering from the Swine Flu._

Dearest Colleagues,

I write this electronically-delivered letter to you in the hopes that you
will forgive me. A terrible fate has befallen my lovely daughter
V\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, and I am afrid that I now share in her misfortune. To
protect you all from similarly horrible destinies, I must eschew your
company this day.

It all started innocently enough, with a persistent cough. My eldest
daughter would delicately hack to "clear her throat". The coughs became more
frequent and urgent. She developed a fever which burned her pure, innocent
forehead. As time passed, she begain to writhe in agony, delirious with
dreams of God knows not what Heavenly retributions and Hellish tortures.

My dearest wife E\_\_\_\_ conveyed her to the pediatrician's office on
Sunday. Her doctor (a woman, by God! Ah, well. I know not what muse guides
Science, but she must hold in favor the fairer sex) diagnosed
V\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ with Swine Flu. The woman practiced her Art with confidence,
perscribing the most modern treatments available.

We repaired to our home, powders and poultices in hand. The cure had barely
taken hold of my dear daughter when I myself began to cough. At first, I
denied the obvious. What strong man would not? Having fought in The War, my
thoughts were not for my own safety or bodily condition but for that of my
child.

I tell you now: Mr. Poe never wrote of horrors so small. The tiny demons
that ravage my body even now defy all description, and to burden you with
reports of the agony they cause does not merit further thought.

The submarine-like conditions of the Juicyorange office being the breeding
grounds for animalcules it is, it is best that I remain far, far away. This
is why I have decided to remain in an entirely different State of the Union.
My sorrow at not joining you is only mitigated by the knowledge that you
will not be exposed to the fiends that wrack my body.

In the fervent hope that this missive is not rerouted to your Spam folder,

With Deepest Respect,\\
James J. Menard\\
Babbage Engine Servitor
